Block chain introduction

Block chain as the underlying technology of Bitcoin has attracted more and more attention, and its decentralized distributed database storage structure has a wide range of applications. This paper introduces block chain technology from five aspects:



Concept of block chain
Development history of block chain
Characteristics of block chains
Structure of block chain
Application of block chain





1. concept of block chain

In a narrow sense, a block chain is a method of combining data blocks into a specific data structure in chronological order by means of chains, and by means of cryptography to ensure that they are not tampered with, and not forged, Decentralized Shared Ledger, which can safely store simple, sequential, and in the system. Internally verified data. [1]


Simply put, a block chain is a decentralized distributed database in which no node can be trusted. Data blocks are stored in the database in chronological order. Each block contains several transaction records. The block is generated by cryptography to ensure that the data can not be tampered with, forged and verified. All nodes (theoretically all nodes) of the network are completed by consensus algorithm. Recognition of blocks.


Generally speaking, block chain technology is a new decentralized infrastructure and distributed computing paradigm that uses encrypted chain block structure to verify and store data, uses distributed node consensus algorithm to generate and update data, and uses automated scripting code (intelligent contract) to program and manipulate data. [2]



2. development history of block chain

Block chain technology is derived from Bitcoin. Block and Chain are proposed as the core technologies of the Bitcoin system in the article Bitcoin: A Point-to-Point Electronic Cash System published by Cong in 2008. Block chain development can be divided into 3 phases up to now: [3]:


Stage 1: block chain 1 -- digital currency
The most representative is Bitcoin, which uses block chains as the underlying technology and is the initial application of block pairs.
The second stage: block chain 2 -- digital assets and intelligent contracts.
The representative products are Ethereum in July 2014, which pushes the concept of smart contracts to the extreme, Factom in March 2015, and the domestic system.
The third stage: block chain 3 - DAO, DAC to block chain society.
DAO and DAC refer to block chain autonomous organizations and block chain autonomous companies. This stage is the block chain technology is widely used in all aspects of people's lives and production, block chain has been widely accepted by people, such as block chain used in energy Internet energy block chain, block chain used in medical services block chain and so on.




3. characteristics of block chain

1. de centralization


Block chain is a kind of distributed data storage structure. Without central node, all nodes preserve all the same block information and completely realize decentralization. For special application scenarios, it is appropriate to adopt weakly centralized management nodes, that is, the central node does not affect the operation of the whole block chain structure, such as the weakly centralized supervision mechanism; if from a security point of view, the central node in the weakly centralized structure to meet the security of the block chain does not pose a threat to users. Privacy is not a threat.


2. no tampering.


On the one hand, each transaction information stored in the block chain has a corresponding Hash value. The Hash value of each record is used as a leaf node to generate a binary Merkle tree. The root node (Hash value) of the Merkle tree is stored in the head of the block. Besides the root node of the Merkle tree of the current block, the head of the block must be saved for a long time. The stamp and the identifier (Hash pointer) of the previous block form a chain structure. Therefore, in order to tamper with a record in a block chain, not only the Hash value of the block must be modified, but also the Hash value of all subsequent blocks must be modified, or a new block chain structure can be generated to make the new chain longer than the original chain. In fact, this is hard to achieve. Generally, when six new blocks are generated behind a block, the block can be considered as untouchable and can be added to the block chain structure.


3. no forgery.


The transaction data stored in the block chain contains not only the Hash value, but also the signatures of both sides of the transaction and the signatures of the verifier. Signature is non forgery and therefore has no forgery.


4. Verifiability


Verifiability refers to verifiability of data sources. In each transaction, the generation, input and output of electronic money can be verified. The block chain structure will not increase electronic money without space. In Bitcoin, for example, the input of each transaction is the output of the previous transaction, and the output of each transaction is the input of the next transaction, i.e. transaction traceability. In addition to verifiable sources, there is also verifiable transaction amount, that is, verify the correctness of the amount, to ensure that every transaction in the process of funds are reliable. At present, in order to ensure the privacy of users, many electronic currencies cut off the traceability of the amount of money as much as possible through technologies such as confusion, ring signature, zero knowledge proof and so on.